General Room Requirements for Engineering/Technology Institutes
Each classroom must have a minimum carpet area of 66 sqm.
Each tutorial room must have a minimum carpet area of 33 sqm.
Each PG laboratory must have a minimum carpet area of 66 sqm.
Each research laboratory must have a minimum carpet area of 66 sqm.
Each workshop must have a minimum carpet area of 200 sqm.
Additional workshops or laboratories must have a minimum carpet area of 200 sqm.
Each computer center must have a minimum carpet area of 150 sqm.
Each drawing hall must have a minimum carpet area of 132 sqm.
The library and reading room must have a minimum carpet area of 400 sqm.
Each seminar hall must have a minimum carpet area of 132 sqm.
Formula-Based Room Calculations
For a new institution, 4 classrooms are required per UG course.
For a new institution, tutorial rooms are calculated as the number of classrooms divided by 4 (C ÷ 4).
PG laboratories are required as 1 per specialization.
For UG courses, 10 PG laboratories per course are required.
For workshops, 1 workshop per course is required for new institutions.
For workshops, 2 workshops per course are required, with a maximum of 4 workshops.
Each UG course must have 1 additional workshop or lab.
Each computer center must have 1 dedicated room.
Each drawing hall must have 1 dedicated room.
The library and reading room must have 1 dedicated room.
Each seminar hall must have 1 dedicated room.
Special Rules for PG Courses
For PG courses, the total number of rooms is calculated as the number of PG specializations multiplied by 2 (F × 2).
Shared UG laboratories must be upgraded to meet the requirements of PG courses.
Progressive Requirements and Scaling
Classrooms, tutorial rooms, and laboratories required for 2nd, 3rd, and 4th years may be added progressively based on student intake.
Additional library (reading room) space of 50 sqm per 60 students (UG + PG) is required if the total intake exceeds 420 students.
For 2nd-year and onward labs, the progressive requirement must be calculated as 3+3+2 labs per course.
Handling Additional Divisions
When the number of divisions exceeds 2 per course, an additional 5 labs per course are required.
For all calculations involving room counts, any fractional results must be rounded up to the next integer.
Categories of Courses
Category X courses include:
Mechanical
Production
Civil
Electrical
Chemical
Textile
Marine
Aeronautical
Other allied courses of each.
